All right.
So in this lesson, I want to refactor another component, and it's going to be our action button component.
So let's open up action button dot view.
And as a reminder, this component is pretty simple.
It's a single button, but there are two styles for that button.
There is a primary style and a secondary style, and that affects the success for the button.
And the type of style that we render is determined by this type prop right here.
There's also a text prop, and that is the actual text that we display in the button.
Now, the important thing here is, well, notice there's only one part of the options API that we have
to replace here.
And it is this computed property of button class.
But notice that button class is using this type here and type in this scenario refers to the type prop.
So in other words, we're using props as the basis for some kind of computed state.
We're not using the components data for the computed property.
We're using a prop flowing into the component as the basis for a computed property.
So in this lesson, we're going to learn how we can create a similar design using our new composition
API.
So just like we did last time, let's comment out computed.
The other logic we're going to keep, because the name property and the props configuration is totally
fine with our new composition API, we only replace things like data computed in methods using setup.
So now let's use the composition API.
So we'll define our setup method.
And how do we get access to props in the body of this setup method?
While Vue is actually going to provide props as the very first argument to the setup method, so right
here I can define the props as my very first argument.
And this is going to be a reactive object with the props that the parent passes in to this action button
component.
So at this point, all we have to do is implement the exact same functionality we have here when the
prop called type changes.
We want to apply it as the dynamic key here in this object we return.
So we want this to be able to recalculate itself in case the prop changes.
So in order to make a computed property in the new composition API, we need to use a computed function.
So right here I'm going to import.
Computed.
And that is going to come from view.
So just like so.
And then right here, of course, we know at the end of the day that we're going to need to return an
object.
And if we want to follow the exact same interface as we have here.
Here we are using a name of button class and we are using that button class right here as the object
that we are binding using v bind to the class attribute right here.
So we know at some point that we need to return a similar name of button class here.
The question is how we arrive at that name.
It's right here.
What is button class going to be equal to?
It's actually going to be equal to an invocation of our computed function.
So, again, whenever you have some kind of computed evaluation, whenever you have data that is dependent
on other data, such as props, right?
It's a little bit different because it's not dependent on the components data, but there's still the
still the same principle applies.
It's computed because it is a access class or access class object that is dependent on some other piece
of data.
This time around, it is props.
So still we're going to use computed, we're going to provide computed with a function and that function
is going to rerun.
Any time anything that's reactive in here changes.
So what I'm going to do here is return an object.
And we're going to follow the exact same protocol we have here.
We want an object where the key is going to be the name of this SS class and then we're going to return.
True to apply.
That's yes, that's class.
Now, formally, we were doing this that type because our type prop right here was available under this
keyword.
We no longer have the this keyword in our setup method, but we have our props argument right here so
I can simply write props that type and this will work.
So because props is a reactive object, if the props change, this computed function will rerun and
thus return a new object which will thus force the binding to update and render a different style of.
But so this right here is how we replace our former implementation right here.
Basically, whenever you have a computer property, use a computer function in the composition API and
give it basically the same argument or the same logic.
That is the same behavior.
The only difference, of course, is we do not have access to the this keyword, but we do have access
to our props still as the first argument.
So we can use props that type here instead of this, that type.
So with that, we are good to remove our former computed property.
And let me show you this in our browser, everything is going to work just fine.
So here on the top right corner is an example of our action button.
Let me show you by bringing up our view devtools right here that here in my main nav I have my action
button and we can see it's currently getting a prop type of primary and that is the primary button style
we have here.
What I'm going to do is change this type value from a string of primary to a string of secondary.
So because my props object is reactive, whenever I change this prop, the computed function that we
defined is going to re-evaluate, which means it's going to rerun.
It's going to return back a brand new class object.
And now we're going to have a secondary key because the type prop is equal to secondary, we're going
to have secondary set to true instead of the former object where primary was set to true.
And this will in turn update the button styles.
So right here, I'm going to save this and you'll notice the button is going to update to have our secondary
styles once again, if I change the props flowing in again, if I change this back to primary, this
will force a change to my reactive props object, which will force a rerunning of my computed function,
which will generate a new returned object which we're using the bind to connect to in our template,
which will force the rendering of a different status class, which will change the style we see on the
button.
It's right here.
I'm going to change this to primary, save that and we're back to our original implementation.
The key takeaway is we have all of our original functionality of the action button, but now we're using
the composition API.
So in summary, if you need to work with props in your setup method, simply provide them as the first
argument.
They're always going to flow in as the very first parameter view will pass in any props from the parent
as the very first argument to the set up method.
If you don't need to use props, then you don't need to define that parameter.
But if you do it and simply define it in line, as we did in this lesson, that's all there is to cover
in this one.
So I will see you in the next lesson.